5/19/2026
Upon completion of this room, you will learn about:

ASCII
Unicode
UTF-8, UTF-16, and UTF-32
How emoji is encoded
And what causes weird gibberish characters

There are several things that you can observe. First, letters are in order. If you know the hexadecimal or decimal number for b, you can figure out the decimal number of a, c, and later lower-case letters. For example, a, b, and c are assigned the hexadecimal numbers 61, 62, and 63, respectively. Same for upper-case letters A to Z and digits 0 to 9. When using ASCII encoding, a computer system reads 41 in a file and displays A on the screen; when it reads 42, it displays B, and so on.

Secondly, each character has its own ASCII, for example, [ is represented by the hexadecimal number 5B.

Obviously, this is not readable by any human being. These are the exact binary representations of all the letters in “TryHackMe” followed by a new line. When you open this file, your editor will read these bits and display the following characters: T r y H a c k M e \n; the \n is a new line that you get when you hit the Enter key.bviously, this is not readable by any human being. These are the exact binary representations of all the letters in “TryHackMe” followed by a new line. When you open this file, your editor will read these bits and display the following characters: T r y H a c k M e \n; the \n is a new line that you get when you hit the Enter key.bviously, this is not readable by any human being. These are the exact binary representations of all the letters in “TryHackMe” followed by a new line. When you open this file, your editor will read these bits and display the following characters: T r y H a c k M e \n; the \n is a new line that you get when you hit the Enter key.

ASCII provided a way to encode the English alphabet; however, we need an encoding to support other European languages such as Spanish (ñ, ¿), German (ß, ü), Polish (ł, ń), Czech (č, ř), and Romanian (ș, ț), to name a few. ASCII uses 7 bits, and with an eighth bit, we get 128 more characters to cover. However, the reality is more challenging; the additional 128 characters are not enough to cover all the letters of the European languages. The ISO/IEC 8859 Series (International Standards) created several standards; each standard covered a set of languages:

ISO-8859-1 (Latin-1): Covered Western European languages like German (ß, ü), French (é, ç), Spanish (ñ, ¿), Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, and Nordic languages (e.g., Icelandic ð/Ð). Check this link(opens in new tab).
ISO-8859-2 (Latin-2): Supported Central/Eastern European languages like Polish (ł, ń), Czech (č, ř), Hungarian (ő, ű), Croatian (đ), Romanian (ș, ț), and Slovak. Check this link(opens in new tab).

Unicode is a universal character encoding standard. It assigns unique code points to characters from all modern and historical writing systems worldwide. Unicode supports the interchange, processing, and display of text in diverse languages. In other words, we don’t need to worry about picking a specific encoding standard that is compatible with the language we are using. Furthermore, this makes it easy to use different languages in a single file or message. And most importantly, because this is a standard that fits all, we don’t need to worry about the encoding used by the original author, as they will also be using Unicode.

Because you will encounter UTF-8, UTF-16, and UTF-32, we will briefly cover them without going into too much depth. What you need to know is that UTF-8 is very common on the modern web. It encodes Unicode points into 1 to 4 bytes dynamically. In other words, it decides on the number of bytes based on the character complexity. ASCII characters (U+0000 to U+007F) use exactly 1 byte, identical to the original ASCII, ensuring seamless backward compatibility. Non-ASCII characters like Ω (U+03A9) use 2 bytes, while complex scripts or emoji like 🔥 (U+1F525) require 4 bytes. This flexibility allows us to cover the Unicode standard without wasting bytes.

UTF-16 takes a different path; it uses either 2 or 4 bytes per character. Common characters, like most Latin, Cyrillic, or Chinese Hanzi, fit in 2 bytes; however, rarer ones, like emoji or ancient scripts, require a pair, i.e., two 16-bit units totaling 4 bytes. For example, the letter A is encoded as U+0041, while the emoji 🔥 needs two and is encoded as U+D83D U+DD25.

Finally, UTF-32 is the simplest but also the most wasteful; every Unicode code point uses exactly 4 bytes. For example, A is encoded as U+00000041 and 🔥 is encoded as U+0001F525.
