5/23/2026
Python offers the random.randint() method, which returns a random integer within the specified bounds. For example, random.randint(1, 20) returns a random number between 1 and 20. Since the user has not made any attempts, we set tries to 0; moreover, we set guess to a value outside the valid range. To tell the user that the program picked a number, we use Python’s print() method to display an informational message on the screen
With our variables ready, we prompt the user to make a guess and set guess accordingly. We begin by saving the user’s input to a temporary text variable, then use Python’s int() to convert it to an integer. Furthermore, we need to increment tries each time the user makes a guess.
 Although this program picks a random number and reads the user’s input, it does not compare the two, which makes it practically useless as a game. In the next task, we upgrade this program so that it gives the user some feedback on how their guess compares to the secret number. The program below is saved as guess_v1.py in the /home/ubuntu/Python-Demo directory
 By reflecting on the above steps, it is only logical that if the guess is not less than or larger than the secret number, it would be equal to the secret number. In programming, whenever the condition after the “if” is not true (written as if CONDITION: in Python), the program checks the condition after the “else if” (written as elif CONDITION: in Python), and if it is also false, it checks the next “else if”. If there are no more “else if” statements left, the program executes the final “else” (written as else: in Python). Let’s convert the above pseudo-code to working Python code.By reflecting on the above steps, it is only logical that if the guess is not less than or larger than the secret number, it would be equal to the secret number. In programming, whenever the condition after the “if” is not true (written as if CONDITION: in Python), the program checks the condition after the “else if” (written as elif CONDITION: in Python), and if it is also false, it checks the next “else if”. If there are no more “else if” statements left, the program executes the final “else” (written as else: in Python). Let’s convert the above pseudo-code to working Python code.By reflecting on the above steps, it is only logical that if the guess is not less than or larger than the secret number, it would be equal to the secret number. In programming, whenever the condition after the “if” is not true (written as if CONDITION: in Python), the program checks the condition after the “else if” (written as elif CONDITION: in Python), and if it is also false, it checks the next “else if”. If there are no more “else if” statements left, the program executes the final “else” (written as else: in Python). Let’s convert the above pseudo-code to working Python code.
 we will keep repeating the code we wrote in Task 3 until the user’s guess matches the secret number. In Python, “does not equal” is written as !=. In other words, the condition “guess does not equal secret” is written as guess != secret. To write this as a while loop, we use the form while CONDITION:; in our case, it is while guess != secret:.
 
